>> Scott Moss: Creating resolvers.
Basically, they just need to return the
same shape as described in the schema or
delegate to another resolver.
That's basically it.
So they either have to return the shape
that the schema said that they are gonna
return, or they have to
delegate to some other resolver
that eventually is gonna return the shape.
Or that resolver delegates to another
resolver, or that resolver delegates to
another resolver, but
eventually the shape has to be returned.
Otherwise, you're either
gonna have a hanging API or
this is gonna break,
both of which are bad.
So basically,
resolvers take a few args here.
So let's just create some resolvers
here and we'll get going.
So I'm just gonna go into
product.resolvers here.
Let's do overview of this file here.
So if you go into product.resolvers,
if you're in the lesson two branch or
even the lesson three branch,
you'll see that at the bottom
I'm exporting a default here.
And it's an object with a Query property,
a Mutation property,
then a Product property.
And these are gonna be all the resolvers.
They actually match one in one for
what's in our schema.
So if I go look at our schema here,
our product.gql.
If you go all the way down, remember,
I said you have to have resolvers for
queries and mutations.
Well, there's nothing here yet
cuz you'll eventually be doing these, but
I already have the placeholders for them.
So if I wanna write resolvers for my
queries, they go inside this Query object.
If I wanna write resolvers for
my mutations,
they go inside this Mutation object.
If I wanna write resolvers for my product
type, specific fields that I wanna resolve
like the ID field or the createdBy field,
they go in this Product type.
They match one for one for
what's in the schema.
Product with a capital P matches
this type, Product with a capital P.
>> Scott Moss: Query matches this type,
Query with a capital Q.
Mutation matches this
type with a capital M.
That's how it does the matching,
it looks at the names there.
So this is how it knows what
resolvers you're trying to write, so
then you would go in here and
you would write your resolvers.
Let's just make some resolvers then.
So we'll just make a resolver for
one of the queries here.
Let's just call it,
actually we'll just make a new type here.
We'll call this,
>> Scott Moss: getData.
So we're gonna make a new
query called getData.
>> Scott Moss: And
it's not gonna take any arguments.
And it's just gonna return back a product,
let's just say it's gonna
return back a product.
There we go, so
now that I have this query and
I have getData, that means now I have
to come inside of the query here.
And I have to add a resolver by the same
name that's defined here, so getData.
So I have to add a field
here called getData.
It has to be the exact same name.
And it's a function.
So that's step one of creating a resolver.
So now, that resolver is created.
It's not doing anything, but it's created.
>> Scott Moss: Following me so far?
So I just create a resolver,
same name matches here.
It's part of the Query.getData,
so Query.getData.
>> Scott Moss: So
then the first argument that a resolver
takes is the starting object.
Or if this resolver is being
as a delegate a resolver,
it will be what the parent
resolver returned.
But it's the starting object.
In this case because any resolver
that's part of a query or
mutation, there's no resolver before it.
It's the root resolver.
It's the first one.
It's the top of the tree.
Nothing is before it, so that first
argument is almost always gonna be no
unless inside of your server file, you
passed in a starting value, which you can.
In some Graph QL servers,
you can say start with this value, and
you can start with
whatever value you want.
In that case, whatever that value you pass
in as your starting value would be that
first argument and your top level
resolvers on queries and mutations.
But I've almost never had to do that.
I can't think of an example why I
would pass in a starting value for
a top level thing.
So most likely we won't do that.
So I normally just put a placeholder here,
something like that,
cuz I'm never gonna use it,
at least for the top level queries.
For type resolvers, you will use them.
So the second argument is gonna be
the args that were potentially
passed to you from the query.
So if we go look here,
getData doesn't take any arguments.
There's no arguments here,
there's no parentheses.
So there's no arguments.
So this would just be,
there's nothing in here.
If any arguments were passed here,
we'd see them here.
For instance,
product takes an argument called id.
So on this args object, there'd be
an id property that is this value.
That's how we get the arguments.
>> Scott Moss: The third
argument is gonna be the context.
In the context, you can think of it's
like shared state between all resolvers.
It's an object that gets passed
to every single resolver, and
you create it when your server starts.
So it's a great place to put user
authentication, shared logic,
caching storage mechanisms,
database models, stuff like that.
People attach a lot of
things to their context,
that way it's a lot easier to test these
resolvers because you can just mock up
the context objects versus importing
everything at the top of a file.
And then you could pass state
between different resolvers.
This resolver did this,
now I pass it on to here.
Here is some state that
you can keep track of.
For instance in the server.js,
you can see I'm allowed to create a
context here, this is the initial context.
And I'm just creating an object that
has a user property that's set to null.
So there's no user on there,
you'll be fixing that later.
But yeah, I'm creating the initial
context right here, but
you can put whatever you want here.
This same context object
that you're creating
is gonna be passed to every single
resolver as a third argument.
It's always gonna be the third argument,
and
it's always going to be that context
object, every single request.
>> Scott Moss: And then the last
argument which we will almost never use,
unless you're getting really advanced,
is the info object, and
this is basically the AST of the query.
So when I say AST, it's basically
taking this query and converting it to
a JavaScript representation of this,
basically.
It's an AST, it's an abstract
syntax tree of this query.
So this will tell you what the requester
is asking for in a JavaScript format.
Like this is the name of
the query that came in.
Here's the query operation name.
Here's the fields,
the type of that field, the other field.
It will tell you every single thing about
that so you can pass that to a database
and say, only select these fields and
stuff like that stuff like that,
or if you're doing some type of tooling or
whatever.
Some other tools use this to figure
out different caching mechanisms,
like to cache this field and
not cache this field, stuff like that.
So you can cache on
a field-by-field basis.
So that part, the info is very,
very, very advanced.
You will almost never use it unless you
were doing some type of optimizations.
I've only had to use it twice.
So, yeah, you almost never use it.